{:title "When Ansible & Docker in Digital Ocean - Round 2"
 :layout :post
 :tags ["ansible" "docker" "digitalocean" "cloud"]}

## Problem

To setup a blog server with nginx docker container to serve static html generated by [Cryogen](http://cryogenweb.org/) in digital ocean, with proper security and server configuration.

## Goal

- Declarative machine configuration
- Dockerized containers
- Easy to migrate to other VPS
- Be lazy

For my later clojure web application
- Easy to scale horizontally
- Easy to setup and maintain a cluster (Ya, Docker Swarm!!!)

## Round 2 - Automate the site build and configure magically

After read the [this article](http://nathanleclaire.com/blog/2015/11/10/using-ansible-with-docker-machine-to-bootstrap-host-nodes/), I found docker-machine + ansible will be the saver, which could archieve my goal. It use some tricks I think to run the ansible from docker container against host, which is use the host network stack.

Anyway just do it!!

1. After sign up digital ocean, generate new API token with read/write access, keep it to yourself.

2. Make sure you installed docker-machine on your desktop/laptop.

3. Download the Dockerfile, which contain the ansible & playbooks from [repository](https://github.com/sniperliu/blog.lambdaliu.com/infra/ansible). Below is the folder structure of the ansible docker provision files
```
.
+-- create-droplet.sh
+-- Dockerfile
+-- entrypoint.sh
+-- playbooks
|   +-- provision.yml
+-- ssh
|   +-- id_rsa_deploy.pub # public key of the user created
+-- conf
|   ⋮
```

4. Run below command or create-droplet.sh to create the droplet, adjust the parameters for different image, size or region
```shell
$ cd PATH # infra/ansible folder
# RUN startvm.sh which contains below command to start a docker machine in ocean
# The vm host's name ansible-sandbox is used, you may change to what you like
$ docker-machine create --driver digitalocean \
       	         --digitalocean-access-token=$DIGITALOCEAN_ACCESS_TOKEN \
	         --digitalocean-image=ubuntu-15-10-x64 \
	         --digitalocean-region=sgp1 \
	         --digitalocean-size=512mb \
	         ansible-sandbox
```

5. After above command returned, the new vm will be ready. Then
```shell
# Check the vm status
$ docker-machine ls
# Setup the envrionment in the terminal
$ eval $(docker-machine env ansible-sandbox)
# Build the ansible provision docker image
$ docker build -t ansible-provision .
# Run ansible provision container to do the setup
$ docker run --rm \		      # remove the container after it's done
  	     --net host \	      # the trick to use the host network stack which ansible localhost work against
	     -v /root/.ssh:/hostssh \ # volumne to exchange the ssh public keys, and make container could access host
	     ansible-provision	      # our image tag
```

6. Add the new user (deploy) to ~/.ssh/config file
```shell
$ ssh ansible-sandbox
```

## Pros

* No need to run so many shell commands, switch between browser and terminal
* Docker machine help manages the vm and install docker engine directly
* Ansible playbook is very clear and readable. Compared with Round 1, I did more security setting, like create another user instead of use root, create docker group, and assign the user to proper group etc.
* Everything is documented, and all the documents could be delivered & run directly or with ansible
* Everything is automated, easy to create similar vm/docker instanses and even change the VPS if there is docker machine driver supported.

## Cons

* Docker machine does not install Docker Compose, make me feel something mssing. Instead I use ansible install it.
* Run the container to control host make me not comfortable. (So I decide another post to try vagrant/docker/ansible for the setup. :))